now Jacob dwelt in the land where his
now Jacob dwelt in the land where his father was a stranger in the land of
father was a stranger in the land of
father was a stranger in the land of Canaan this is the history of Jacob
Canaan this is the history of Jacob
Canaan this is the history of Jacob Joseph being 17 years old was feeding
Joseph being 17 years old was feeding
Joseph being 17 years old was feeding the flock with his brothers and the lad
the flock with his brothers and the lad
the flock with his brothers and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah and the sons
was with the sons of Bilhah and the sons
was with the sons of Bilhah and the sons of Zilpah his father's wives and Joseph
of Zilpah his father's wives and Joseph
of Zilpah his father's wives and Joseph brought a bad report of them to his
brought a bad report of them to his
brought a bad report of them to his father now Israel loved Joseph more than
father now Israel loved Joseph more than
father now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children because he was the son
all his children because he was the son
all his children because he was the son of his old age also he made him a tunic
of his old age also he made him a tunic
of his old age also he made him a tunic of many colors but when his brothers saw
of many colors but when his brothers saw
of many colors but when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than
that their father loved him more than
that their father loved him more than all his brothers they hated him and
all his brothers they hated him and
all his brothers they hated him and could not speak peaceably to him now
could not speak peaceably to him now
could not speak peaceably to him now Joseph had a dream and he told it to his
Joseph had a dream and he told it to his
Joseph had a dream and he told it to his brothers and they hated him even more so
brothers and they hated him even more so
brothers and they hated him even more so he said to them please hear this dream
he said to them please hear this dream
he said to them please hear this dream which I have dreamed there we were
which I have dreamed there we were
which I have dreamed there we were binding sheaves in the field then behold
binding sheaves in the field then behold
binding sheaves in the field then behold my sheaf arose and also stood upright
my sheaf arose and also stood upright
my sheaf arose and also stood upright and indeed your sheaves stood all around
and indeed your sheaves stood all around
and indeed your sheaves stood all around and bowed down to my sheaf and his
and bowed down to my sheaf and his
and bowed down to my sheaf and his brothers said to him shall you indeed
brothers said to him shall you indeed
brothers said to him shall you indeed reign over us or shall you indeed have
reign over us or shall you indeed have
reign over us or shall you indeed have dominion over us so they hated him even
dominion over us so they hated him even
dominion over us so they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words
more for his dreams and for his words
more for his dreams and for his words then he dreamed still another dream and
then he dreamed still another dream and
then he dreamed still another dream and told it to his brothers look I have
told it to his brothers look I have
told it to his brothers look I have dreamed another dream and this time the
dreamed another dream and this time the
dreamed another dream and this time the Sun the moon and the Eleven stars bowed
Sun the moon and the Eleven stars bowed
Sun the moon and the Eleven stars bowed down to me so he told it to his father
down to me so he told it to his father
down to me so he told it to his father and his brothers and his father rebuked
and his brothers and his father rebuked
and his brothers and his father rebuked him what is this dream that you have
him what is this dream that you have
him what is this dream that you have dreamed shall your mother and I and your
dreamed shall your mother and I and your
dreamed shall your mother and I and your brothers indeed come to bow down to the
brothers indeed come to bow down to the
brothers indeed come to bow down to the earth before you and his brothers envied
earth before you and his brothers envied
earth before you and his brothers envied him but his father kept the matter in
him but his father kept the matter in
him but his father kept the matter in mind when his brothers went to feed
mind when his brothers went to feed
mind when his brothers went to feed their father's flock in Shechem and
their father's flock in Shechem and
their father's flock in Shechem and Israel said to Joseph are not your
Israel said to Joseph are not your
Israel said to Joseph are not your brothers feeding the flock in Shechem
brothers feeding the flock in Shechem
brothers feeding the flock in Shechem come I will send you to them so he said
come I will send you to them so he said
come I will send you to them so he said to him
to him
to him Here I am please go and see if it is
Here I am please go and see if it is
Here I am please go and see if it is well with your brothers and well with
well with your brothers and well with
well with your brothers and well with the flocks and bring back word to me so
the flocks and bring back word to me so
the flocks and bring back word to me so he sent him out of the valley of Hebron
he sent him out of the valley of Hebron
he sent him out of the valley of Hebron and he went to Shechem now a certain man
and he went to Shechem now a certain man
and he went to Shechem now a certain man found him and there he was wandering in
found him and there he was wandering in
found him and there he was wandering in the field what are you seeking I am
the field what are you seeking I am
the field what are you seeking I am seeking my brothers please tell me where
seeking my brothers please tell me where
seeking my brothers please tell me where they are feeding their flocks they have
they are feeding their flocks they have
they are feeding their flocks they have departed from here for I heard them say
departed from here for I heard them say
departed from here for I heard them say let us go to Dothan so Joseph went off
let us go to Dothan so Joseph went off
let us go to Dothan so Joseph went off to his brothers and found them in Dothan
now when they saw him afar off even
now when they saw him afar off even before he came near them they conspired
before he came near them they conspired
before he came near them they conspired against him to kill him
against him to kill him
against him to kill him look this dreamer is coming come
look this dreamer is coming come
look this dreamer is coming come therefore let us now kill him and cast
therefore let us now kill him and cast
therefore let us now kill him and cast him into some pit and we shall say some
him into some pit and we shall say some
him into some pit and we shall say some wild beast has devoured him we shall see
wild beast has devoured him we shall see
wild beast has devoured him we shall see what will become of his dreams but Ruben
what will become of his dreams but Ruben
what will become of his dreams but Ruben heard it and he delivered him out of
heard it and he delivered him out of
heard it and he delivered him out of their hands
their hands
their hands let us not kill him
let us not kill him
let us not kill him shed no blood but cast him into this pit
shed no blood but cast him into this pit
shed no blood but cast him into this pit which is in the wilderness and do not
which is in the wilderness and do not
which is in the wilderness and do not lay a hand on him that he might deliver
lay a hand on him that he might deliver
lay a hand on him that he might deliver him out of their hands and bring him
him out of their hands and bring him
him out of their hands and bring him back to his father so he came to pass
back to his father so he came to pass
back to his father so he came to pass when Joseph had come to his brothers but
when Joseph had come to his brothers but
when Joseph had come to his brothers but they strapped Joseph of his tunic the
they strapped Joseph of his tunic the
they strapped Joseph of his tunic the tunic of many colors that was on him and
cast him into a pit the pit was empty
cast him into a pit the pit was empty there was no water in it and they sat
there was no water in it and they sat
there was no water in it and they sat down to eat a meal then they lifted
down to eat a meal then they lifted
down to eat a meal then they lifted their eyes and looked and there was a
their eyes and looked and there was a
their eyes and looked and there was a company of Ishmaelites coming from
company of Ishmaelites coming from
company of Ishmaelites coming from Gilead with their camels bearing spices
Gilead with their camels bearing spices
Gilead with their camels bearing spices balm and myrrh on their way to carry
balm and myrrh on their way to carry
balm and myrrh on their way to carry them down to Egypt so Judah said to his
them down to Egypt so Judah said to his
them down to Egypt so Judah said to his brothers
brothers
brothers what profit is there if we kill our
what profit is there if we kill our
what profit is there if we kill our brother conceal his blood come and let
brother conceal his blood come and let
brother conceal his blood come and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites and let
us sell him to the Ishmaelites and let
us sell him to the Ishmaelites and let not our hand to be upon him for he is
not our hand to be upon him for he is
not our hand to be upon him for he is our brother and our flesh and his
our brother and our flesh and his
our brother and our flesh and his brothers listened then Midianite traders
brothers listened then Midianite traders
brothers listened then Midianite traders passed by so the brothers pulled joseph
passed by so the brothers pulled joseph
passed by so the brothers pulled joseph up and lifted him out of the pit and
up and lifted him out of the pit and
up and lifted him out of the pit and sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty
sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty
sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty shekels of silver and they took Joseph
shekels of silver and they took Joseph
shekels of silver and they took Joseph to Egypt then Reuben returned to the pit
to Egypt then Reuben returned to the pit
to Egypt then Reuben returned to the pit and indeed Joseph was not in the pit and
and indeed Joseph was not in the pit and
and indeed Joseph was not in the pit and he tore his clothes and he returned to
he tore his clothes and he returned to
he tore his clothes and he returned to his brothers the lad is no more and I
his brothers the lad is no more and I
his brothers the lad is no more and I where shall I go so they took Joseph's
where shall I go so they took Joseph's
where shall I go so they took Joseph's tunic killed a kid of the goats and
tunic killed a kid of the goats and
tunic killed a kid of the goats and dipped the tunic in the blood then they
dipped the tunic in the blood then they
dipped the tunic in the blood then they sent the tunic of many colors and they
sent the tunic of many colors and they
sent the tunic of many colors and they brought it to their father
we have found this do you know whether
we have found this do you know whether it is your son's tunic or not and he
it is your son's tunic or not and he
it is your son's tunic or not and he recognized it it is my son's tunic a
recognized it it is my son's tunic a
recognized it it is my son's tunic a wild beast has devoured him without
wild beast has devoured him without
wild beast has devoured him without doubt Joseph is torn to pieces and Jacob
doubt Joseph is torn to pieces and Jacob
doubt Joseph is torn to pieces and Jacob but for his clothes puts a cloth on his
but for his clothes puts a cloth on his
but for his clothes puts a cloth on his waist and mourn for his son many days
waist and mourn for his son many days
waist and mourn for his son many days and all his sons and all his daughters
and all his sons and all his daughters
and all his sons and all his daughters arose to comfort him but he refused to
arose to comfort him but he refused to
arose to comfort him but he refused to be comforted for I shall go down into
be comforted for I shall go down into
be comforted for I shall go down into the grave to my son in mourning Rus his
the grave to my son in mourning Rus his
the grave to my son in mourning Rus his father wept for him
now the Midianites had sold him in Egypt
now the Midianites had sold him in Egypt to Potiphar an officer of fair and
to Potiphar an officer of fair and
to Potiphar an officer of fair and captain of the guard
you
you [Music]